hi guys what's up and welcome back to my
channel so today I thought it'd be fun
to do a five steps to losing your first
five pounds as a petite woman if weight
loss is your goal I am gonna give you
the full five-step plan right here I'm
gonna try to keep this video super brief
into the point so that there's not a lot
of bloggers and you can just know what
to go and implement right after you
watch this video so get out a pen and
paper take some notes and leave any
questions you have below in the comments
and if you love this type of video give
it a thumbs up and of course subscribe
for more content tailored to petite
women okay so before I jump into this
video I do want to talk about weight
loss versus fat loss because they are
different things but a lot of you guys
probably have a fat loss goal and not a
weight loss goal but you just don't know
it yet so basically when you want to
lose weight you want the number on this
scale to change when you want to lose
fat you might think that you want the
number on the scale of change but really
you can achieve your result your goals
of losing body fat gaining muscle
looking fit and toned and healthy
without really changing the number on
the scale or it just changing slightly
by doing what's known as a body
recomposition so that's when you lose
fat but you gain muscles so the scale
actually stays the same a lot of my
clients are able to achieve body recom
positions and feel extremely happy with
the results because they achieved the
physique they wanted without cutting
calories and that means that they've
changed their body composition so this
is your fat to lean body mass ratio your
fat to muscle ratio less fat more muscle
is what makes people look toned and in
shape and fit so you might be in that
category of just wanting to lose fat not
necessarily weight but you also might be
in the category of having a goal of
really losing weight say you have more
weight to lose that you feel you want to
lose and that's totally fine in which
case you would really will be looking at
the scale to lose fat now whichever camp
you're in make sure you're going to use
more tools than just the scale because
the scale never tells the full picture
so make sure if you're trying to
you're using a measuring tape and if
you're aiming for a binary composition
or for both you guys take progress when
it was you will thank me later I promise
so whether you want to lose fat or you
want to lose weight here's how you can
start to change your body so that either
a looks like you lost five pounds of fat
or B you really did lose five pounds of
fat so here are the five steps you can
take to either lose five pounds or make
it sort of look like you lost five
pounds when really you've lost some fat
and gain some muscle but either way you
will appear more toned fit and slimmer
okay step one is to audit yourself take
a complete inventory of your current
lifestyle you cannot skip this step so
often people come to me and they say
April what do I do you know to get in
shape what's the first step the first
step is going to depend on where you
currently are because we need to make
changes that make sense for where you
are if you just do what someone else is
doing it's only gonna work for you if
you're in the right place to reap them
you know the benefits of whatever
they're doing you might be too far from
there or you might be ahead of them you
might be in totally different place it's
not always good to just you know go from
where you are now to Z sometimes you
really need to start at B and you'll get
the same results and it'll be easier and
you'll have better long-term outcomes so
step one is to take inventory of your
current health life I want you to keep a
food journal for three days and this
isn't so that you tracked food and
become obsessed this is literally just
to understand okay what is my diet like
and when I say diet I mean your
nutrition what in what foods am i eating
am i eating a diet that's high in
processed foods a might even want to
Whole Foods am i eating any vegetables
it's all about awareness
step one is awareness where are you
currently at you have to know where you
are in relation to your goal or else you
don't know the next steps today other
things you can look at if you have your
phone or you wear a tracker you can look
at how what your
that count is and you can look at how
much water you're drinking but the most
important thing is just keep a food
journal for three days using
MyFitnessPal roughly log your food and
take a look at the composition of your
diet see how many calories you're eating
in a day if you're eating under 1200 for
eating more than 2,000 just figure out
where you are right now and where your
metabolism is right now the other thing
you'll want to take inventory on is your
current workout routine so how many days
a week are you exercising are you
exercising at all what do those
exercises look like are you lifting
weights are you doing cardio just write
it down know eilat analyzing yet just
write it all down okay step 2
I want you to keep your colors the same
so the biggest mistake petite women make
is they immediately jump into a diet and
it's just going to cause you to lose
muscle so your metabolism and hold on
sheriff fat especially because a lot of
us are already eating too few calories
so the first thing you're going to do is
stay wherever you are do not change your
diet in terms of number of calories in
terms of how you will change your diet
and the composition of it we'll talk
about the next step but step two is stay
at your maintenance calories and what
you're going to do as well is start
lifting weights okay so you're going to
start learning how to lift weights if
you're a beginner use my free guide get
in the gym or do you know a light
lifting routine at home with a pair of
dumbbells you got to do this because
it's the only way to build muscle and
building muscle is really one of the
only ways to naturally boost your
metabolism we want to keep your calories
the same because we don't want to start
dieting and lose muscle and hurt or a
tablet um but if you add in new activity
levels and especially strength training
which has a really great long-term
effect on your metabolism you will
probably naturally enter a calorie
deficit a very slight one just by a way
of increasing your activity levels
but then not changing your current
calories this will help you lose weight
to be in a slight calorie deficit by
your activity level if you are looking
to lose weight and if you are looking to
have a binary composition and lose fat
this is gonna help you build muscle
because you're lifting weights but also
burn fat because you might be in a
slight calorie deficit and that is going
to be the very perfect best place for
you to start you do not want to start by
dieting and doing cardio whatever you do
don't do that I'm sure you've done it in
the past and it hasn't worked out for
you or else you wouldn't be watching
this video so instead try something
different for this time that you're
going for it and pick up the weights and
state your maintenance calories okay
step 3 now let's talk about how well you
can't change your nutrition composition
without changing the number of calories
you're eating in a day so try to look at
your journal and analyze it I know
you're you know we're not all
nutritionists we don't know how to
analyze what we're eating but you can
look at how much processed food you're
eating and how often you're eating out
at restaurants and dining and ordering
lunches and skipping breakfast you can
look at basic things like that so where
I would start is look at your meals are
they balanced with enough protein are
you eating protein at every meal are you
drinking lots of water with every meal
are you eating out every night of the
week okay so after you've looked at your
your food journal you're gonna know
these things so you're going to take the
easiest you know step you can away from
that you're not gonna banish eating out
you're not gonna banish foods or food
groups you're just gonna say I'm gonna
eat out one time fewer than I normally
do so at this point we're looking at
changing the composition of your diet
not the calories because it's also gonna
contribute to a healthier metabolism
it's gonna keep you fuller it's gonna
help you build muscle it's gonna get
your appetite hormones you know in a
regular place it's gonna help you sleep
it's gonna do a lot of amazing things
for you so just improving your nutrition
by cooking a little bit more eating a
height you know protein every single
meal and drinking enough water did I say
that I think I said that doing those
things are just changing the composition
of your diet but not changing your
actually number you know the number of
calories you're eating in a day okay
step four is the most important part but
the least favorite by everyone I'm sure
I already know it is it's just stay
consistent and ride out this plan for a
minimum of four to six weeks okay a lot
of times we start a new lifestyle and
we're like checking in the mirror after
24 hours being like do I have app 10
right like I've been there I know you've
been there it's like a normal thing that
we do we just want to see the results
immediately and I do too I'm like that
too and I literally have to coach myself
into being like okay April you know
you've coached hundreds of women you
know the science it's not gonna show up
in the mirror tomorrow that's why I did
12 week challenge and honestly no one
even noticed I lost seven pounds and I
think no one even really commented until
like week 12 and that's when other
people noticed and that was 12 weeks of
consistency and you know days that maybe
I weren't good I got right back on to it
the next day so be consistent with your
with your choices in your lifestyle
being consistent does not mean dieting
and refusing the brownie and doing tons
of cardio right being consistent means
taking care of yourself and having a
little bit of discipline there you know
just stick to the original plan that you
wrote out and the plan should not be too
aggressive it should be you know you
know moderate weight training a few days
a week
not dieting and just eating out a little
bit less those changes enough could be
so powerful you could absolutely lose 5
pounds doing that in a month
if you did it correctly and you weren't
depriving yourself and you are really
setting yourself up for success
so stay consistent for a minimum of four
to six weeks that's step number four
okay step 5 we are getting into the
analyzing part so after you've been
consistent for four to six weeks now
you're going to check in you're gonna
take those progress photos weigh
yourself whatever you want to do it's
totally up to you you don't have to
weigh yourself you could just keep a
journal you could just check in with how
you're feeling but make sure you sit
down and you know take measurements or
progress photos whatever and you're
gonna compare them to your where you
started and see what the changes were if
any so if you saw no changes in four to
six weeks the next thing is be super
honest with yourself ask yourself was I
really consistent like did I actually
stick to this such as just you and
yourself so there's nothing wrong with
you know admitting that you might not
have been adhered to your goals as much
and so you wanted to that's okay it
doesn't make you a failure it just makes
this a journey right and that's why it's
called a journey because there are lots
of ups and downs and there's steps back
so there's steps forward and that's
totally normal but the point of this
step is to evaluate and see okay did I
did did what I was is the plan I put in
place for myself working and if it's not
working why it's the reason why because
my adherence wasn't good or is the
reason because the programming wasn't
working for me okay so if you if you
truly were consistent for five you know
four to six weeks there's no way that
you won't see results in some you know
cases if you have any hormonal issues or
other things and influencing your weight
loss that's different I'm just talking
about if you don't have it
co-existing we're pre-existing health
conditions if you if you find that it
didn't work one of the reasons could be
like you probably who maybe already had
a healthy lifestyle you already wore
lifting weights and you need something a
little bit more in which case you might
want to get on a different program that
teaches you how to use progressive
overload so how to lift weights
progressively so you're making gains
each week you may need to you know learn
more about your diet and nutrition
whatever it is just get curious and
think about your health as a puzzle and
like it's fun to solve that's the only
way you're gonna figure out what works
for a body and if you did see results
that's awesome that means your body's
responding really well and you should
just continue on that course until you
hit a plateau in which case you would
repeat all five steps over again and see
how you can increase the intensity or
change some things up but those are the
five steps for losing your first five
pounds as a petite woman I really hope
you guys like this super short sweet
video gets straight to the point let me
know any questions you have below and
give this a thumbs up if you learn
something and subscribe for more content
tailored to petite women but that's it
for me today you guys I hope you have a
great rest of your week and I will see
you next week
[Music]